Now we have the validations for the username, email and password fields.
In this one, let's implement the validation for the password equality.
So when the passwords are not matching, let's display a validation error after the password.
Repeat input.
Let's start with the test.
So adding a test to the sign up component spec and copying the previous one.
In this one we will be filling the password.
Repeat input and let's say the value will be this one.
And as a result we will see this error password mismatch.
Moving karma to front end.
Let's save this one.
That's our running gun here.
We see the test is failing.
Displays password mismatch.
One password repeat has this past value.
Now let's fix this.
We are going to fix this in the sign component.
So far we have been using the validators coming from the angular forms.
But this time we are going to create our custom validation functionality because it's all dependent
onto our requirement here.
We are going to check two different input fields and their equality.
So we are going to implement custom validation function here.
And one more difference is here.
So far, the validator functions were assigned to the specific forum controls, but now we are dependent
on two inputs, like the password and password repeat here.
So instead of associating the validation functionality with a specific field, we will use whole form
group here so that we can access to both password and the password.
Repeat inputs.
So this is going to be a cross field validator.
And basically, we can define a function some somewhere here.
Let's say it's here and it's name it as password, match validator.
And this function type will be validator.
If an this is coming from the angular forms package.
And
it's going to be a function.
This function will be taking a parameter of
control.
And the type of this control is abstract control.
And as a result, this is going to be returning either validator validation errors or null.
So if the validation is passing, then it's going to be returning null.
But if validation fails, it's going to be returning this validation errors back.
So here in this function now we are going to get the the values from this password and password repeat.
And we will take it.
We will take those values from this control.
So like here we will get the password and we get it from control gate and we are going to get the password
and similarly we will get the password repeat.
Now we have the values of these form controls.
Now we can compare their values.
Like we can say if password.
As this value.
This is an optional value.
This can be null.
So adding this optional chain here.
So if.
It's value
equals to password repeat value, so the values are equal so we can return null.
Otherwise we are going to return the error object.
And the error object is basically any key value we are.
We are going to add.
So the the key can be like this.
Let's say return an object having a key and let's say the key will be a password match and the value
is true.
So by returning this response we are saying this password match validator is failed.
Basically we are saying that and if you remember when we were having this required, this was this was
returning and a response like this one required through.
So we are doing same same thing here.
So we have the password match validator.
Now we are going to use it in this form group.
So here the form group is taking the first parameter which is the, the form controls.
Then like if you can focus to this part here we have the validator or options part.
So after the first parameter is a second parameter, we can set the options for the validator and here
we can set the validators and the validator is this password match validator.
So it is password match validator will be called and when the the password and password repeats are
same, we are not going to have any validation error.
Otherwise we will have this password match error.
Now to display a message on UI, let's have an error get function like this.
And here let's get password.
Repeat error.
So like we do here, we were getting the the field, then we were checking if it was touched.
Then based on the the errors, we are returning the corresponding message.
We will do the same thing.
But this time, instead of accessing to the specific form control, we will just access to the form.
So we will do like this if this.
Form.
Has errors.
Basically we are doing these things, but we were taking the field as a reference here.
We were checking field errors, but now we are going to have error for the form because this.
This validator is basically setting the error for the form group, not the form controls right here.
So we are checking the form if it has error.
And we will do the.
The other controls as well.
So just copying this part from here.
And add in care.
So this this form.
So if this form has errors and if this form is touched and if this form is dirty means the user is still
having entering values, then we checked the error type here.
So if.
We have this form errors.
Error.
Has the errors error?
Has this password match.
This is the name we set for the key.
This one.
So if we have this one, then we are going to return the message and the message will be password mismatch.
This message.
So we have this password repeat error now.
And just like using these these error get functions, we will use this one password.
Repeat error on the template.
So right here.
Let's move this to the new line.
So first thing is we are going to add the style when we have the password repeat error and we will have
this div after the input and this is for password repeat validation and this is what we are querying
in the test.
Right here we are taking the field name dash validation.
So we are looking for this div to be there and then we are going to check the text in that div.
So this is the password repeat validation and it's going to be visible when we have password, repeat
error and we are going to display the password.
Repeat error.
By the way, we have this warning because this is only returning in this case, but let's make sure
we return anyway.
So it's going to be returning undefined when it doesn't match to these if conditions.
Now let's save all these changes.
And here we see the tests are running and the tests are passing here.
The last test is this way is password mismatch when password repeat has this pass value.
Let's try this one on browser.
So here, let's type anything to the password.
So if I type this.
So we have two failures.
One is because the thing I entered here is not matching to this pattern.
The other failure is now we have this value which is not matching to the password.
Repeat here.
If I type something here, that error is gone.
So we have implemented this cross field validation.
But let's extract this out of this component.
Again, switching to the karma, because we are going to refactor the implementation here.
So here in the project, under this sign up, I'm just going to create a new file and I'm going to name
it as password.
Match Validator is.
And I'm going to cut these.
Lines, cutting the password match validator.
Then we are going to, of course, import the.
The Later FM abstract control.
These are coming from the anchor firms and the validation errors and we need to export this function
from here, saving this one.
And now we can just import this password match validator from this.
Module.
Now, we don't need these imports.
So just cleaning up this part and let's save all these changes.
Tests are running and all this are passing.
So we have implemented the Cross-field validator for the password and password repeat inputs.